## NIST NVD CVE ANALYSIS RATE REPORT

NVD CVE Analysis Rate Report is a github page created to track NIST NVD CVE Analysis progress during the great NVD analysis/enrichment "slowdown" of 2024. This repository contains the code used to generate the report pages, as well as the data extracted from the NVD Dashboard page.

The goal of this project is to track NVD's CVE analysis progress, and follow steps being taken towards getting NVD back on track. This project was not developed to criticize the hard working folks at NIST. It is simply a tool to track progress and provide a historical record of the NVD's analysis rate.

Data is sourced from the [NVD Dashboard](https://nvd.nist.gov/general/nvd-dashboard) and report pages are automatically generated daily using the latest available data from NVD. Pages are to be archived daily with the goal of charting progress when enough historical data is availble.

The script is run daily and the output is pushed to this repository. A github page containing the the HTML output can be viewed at: [https://vexgen.github.io/](https://vexgen.github.io/)

nvd_cve_analysis.db is a sqlite3 database that stores the data extracted from the report. The database is updated daily with the latest data from NVD. Database updates are not currently generated by the script, but an updated copy is uploaded to the repository daily. **Please Note that data is not currently available for June 26th, 2024 as the NVD Dashboard was not available on that day.

The repository contains an archive folder that stores the daily report pages, json data, and more recently the sqlite3 database. Data from the previous day is added to the archive as the latest data is pushed to the repository. JSON and sqlite3 archvied files do not go back as far as the html files currently, however this may change if there is an interest in access to historical data.  


### How it works

nvd_rate_report_tool.py is used to generate the report pages. It is a simple python script that reads the NVD Dashboard page and generates a markdown report page. It is still a work in progress and may be updated in the future to include more features and for general code improvements.

Requirements:
- Python 3
- requests
- BeautifulSoup4
- Selenium

Ensure that the browser driver is installed. The script is currently set to use the Firefox driver, but can be easily modified to use another browser driver by changing the driver variable in the code i.e. ```driver = webdriver.Firefox()``` to ```driver = webdriver.Chrome()```.

To run the script ensure that the requirements are installed and run the following:

```python3 nvd_rate_report_tool.py```

When run, the script will open a browser window and load the NVD Dashboard page. It will then extract the data and generate a report. The report is output as an HTML markdown file (default "index.html") with the data for the current day. 

The script also outputs a JSON file (data.json) containing key values used in generating the html page.

### Future Plans

- Remove redundancies from the database and script.
- Create historic JSON data files.
- General clean up to the script and JSON output.

Feel free to contact me with any errors, questions or suggestions.

\- Jamie Aitken


